# Applied-Small-World
This repository is meant to use small world in simulating real life problems and getting inference out of it.

# History
Small worlds are mathematical Graphs (with nodes and edges) that are used to model real world dynamics on a very fundamental level. Its many properties are used by many researchers cross discipline. There are mainly 2 types of small world networks. Erdős–Rényi model and Watts-Strogatz model. Both the model has their own quirks and features.
## Erdős–Rényi Model
There are two closely related variants of the Erdős–Rényi random graph model.


A graph generated by the binomial model of Erdős and Rényi (p = 0.01)
In the {\displaystyle G(n,M)}{\displaystyle G(n,M)} model, a graph is chosen uniformly at random from the collection of all graphs which have {\displaystyle n}n nodes and {\displaystyle M}M edges. The nodes are considered to be labeled, meaning that graphs obtained from each other by permuting the vertices are considered to be distinct. For example, in the {\displaystyle G(3,2)}{\displaystyle G(3,2)} model, there are three two-edge graphs on three labeled vertices (one for each choice of the middle vertex in a two-edge path), and each of these three graphs is included with probability {\displaystyle {\tfrac {1}{3}}}{\tfrac {1}{3}}.
In the {\displaystyle G(n,p)}G(n,p) model, a graph is constructed by connecting labeled nodes randomly. Each edge is included in the graph with probability {\displaystyle p}p, independently from every other edge. Equivalently, the probability for generating each graph that has {\displaystyle n}n nodes and {\displaystyle M}M edges is
{\displaystyle p^{M}(1-p)^{{n \choose 2}-M}.}{\displaystyle p^{M}(1-p)^{{n \choose 2}-M}.}
The parameter {\displaystyle p}p in this model can be thought of as a weighting function; as {\displaystyle p}p increases from {\displaystyle 0}{\displaystyle 0} to {\displaystyle 1}1, the model becomes more and more likely to include graphs with more edges and less and less likely to include graphs with fewer edges. In particular, the case {\displaystyle p={\tfrac {1}{2}}}p={\tfrac  {1}{2}} corresponds to the case where all {\displaystyle 2^{\binom {n}{2}}}2^\binom{n}{2} graphs on {\displaystyle n}n vertices are chosen with equal probability.
The behavior of random graphs are often studied in the case where {\displaystyle n}n, the number of vertices, tends to infinity. Although {\displaystyle p}p and {\displaystyle M}M can be fixed in this case, they can also be functions depending on {\displaystyle n}n. For example, the statement that almost every graph in {\displaystyle G(n,2\ln(n)/n)}{\displaystyle G(n,2\ln(n)/n)} is connected means that, as {\displaystyle n}n tends to infinity, the probability that a graph on {\displaystyle n}n vertices with edge probability {\displaystyle 2\ln(n)/n}{\displaystyle 2\ln(n)/n} is connected tends to {\displaystyle 1}1.
